process.md, before:

To do:
- [x] run classification models on "food.csv"
- [x] join "content.csv" to "food.csv" by "food_id" - looking to add the "food_group" column to content.csv data
- [x] take the best one (or maybe two) models & run them on the joined data 
        - logistric regression took about an hour to train on colab on the large data set
        - knn ran for 17+ hours and then failed
- [x] look for adjectives in description, maybe a parts-of-speech model? or make a list to create flag columns as features?
- [] recommender system: calculate similarities between all the foods
- [] figure out what chemical/nutrient data I can get for each ingredient - check out the other tables from foodb and the flavordb website, maybe try the [foodb api](https://foodb.ca/api_doc)
- [] plot the flavor/nutrient profile of the recipe, using the weight of the ingredients
- [] error handling: how to handle ingredients in recipe that I can't find in the db
- [] build app
- [] update resume with details on capstone & project 5

Commit message:

More work on recipe data & a bunch of pretty terrible models

process.md, after:

To do:
- [x] run classification models on "food.csv"
- [x] join "content.csv" to "food.csv" by "food_id" - looking to add the "food_group" column to content.csv data
- [x] take the best one (or maybe two) models & run them on the joined data 
        - logistric regression took about an hour to train on colab on the large data set
        - knn ran for 17+ hours and then failed
- [x] look for adjectives in description, maybe a parts-of-speech model? or make a list to create flag columns as features?
- [x] change data source & entire plan (yay!)
- [x] explore recipes, raw & encoded
- [x] build "flagged" recipes from recipe data -> dummifies pre-processed recipe data based on "ingredient_ids"
- [x] run kmeans on flagged data & calculate silhouette score (it's not great)
- [x] fetch a recipe from API & get a cluster prediction from the model (even if it's not great yet)
- [x] encode that process in py file
- [x] set up model trials (may need to run overnight?)
        - kmeans
        - dbscan
- [] build app MVP
- [] filter recipes & run the models on dinner/main course recipes alone
- [] calculate cosine similarity between the recipes, check out word2vec & recommender lectures
- [] refine model to predict ingredients
- [] error handling: how to handle ingredients in recipe that I can't find in the db
- [] update resume with details on capstone & project 5
